So I'm going to go back to the console where I can add data and I'll click select file.
It's in my downloads I would just add this as a first file.
Here I have clicked Next and that gives me some timestamps,
some other fields that I chose,
and I can now click on Next.
In terms of the input settings,
I'm going to stick to the default and I would stick to the host field default as well.
I'm not going to create a new index,
but in enterprise application you might choose to use some new index.
I will review this and I will click done.
So now, what it does is it uploads the CSV file.
So this gives us a detailed explanation
of the process being finished and now it will allow me to search,
run graphs, and do all reporting or alerting that I want to do here.
Let's take a moment here to understand what's happening here.
So there is three options available on the right side which is smart mode,
fast mode, and verbose mode.
If I choose the verbose mode,
it will give a very detailed or heavy
or completely in-depth details of the data that is available.
I'm going to choose to go with smart mode, so here.
So let's take a look at one of the records here.
So here you have all the selected fields,
details, and the event.
So this is our event and the event has these fields available to you.
The time is in a separate section,
and these are the defaults available to us,
and you see the index is main.
So here by default when I clicked on searching,
it created this auto search for me,
which provides the source which is available at the very bottom as well.
If you look at this this is the source and the source type, the host information.
These are the three fields that are available to us here.
So let's look a little more at this screen.
These fields that you see on the side,
these fall under the category of metadata.
What metadata means is that it's the data about the data.
So what is the host, source,
source type, these will be the metadata,
and the green bars that you see tell us
that these are the places or in time where some data is available.
So you can just click on those parts of
the graph and be directed to that particular instance of time.
So you have reference to that data at this point in time.
The other part that you can take a look at is
this menu which provides you with presets for time.
So you'll be able to see relative options like last 15 minutes,
today, week to date.
So these are the various options that are available for you,
together with real-time options which are self-explanatory,
and you might want to check these other options as well.
Now, if it says real-time,
there's nothing really real time.
There is always going to be some amount of buffer when you get the data,
but it's still loading.
But this is very good Splunk is still very good at showing near real-time data.
Now, don't forget to click on
Apply button when you go to the relative of section because a lot of
time I have seen myself clicking
the numbers or adding the numbers on waiting
on some results to show without clicking Apply button.
So this is all the data that you can see over here.
Now, how would you search data in Splunk?
So you would use SPL or Splunk Processing Language in order to query over here,
and you can have any of these fields that are available to search.
Another option to take a look at is extract new fields.
I would encourage you to use this and play around with this.
What you would do with this is you would click on
that extract fields and then check one of the options.
I'm going to try to just extract one field.
So I'm going to go back and click on extract new fields.
Here I have this particular data set and I have chosen regular expression, select fields,
and I'm going to extract expression.
So here it will point out all of the raw data that had 046612,
and I can go ahead and save it for later or not.
So here this was one example of extracting additional fields.
This would be more meaningful if you have real data where you can
run real queries and you can run some field extractions.
The next part that I'm going to discuss is how you
run SPL and how you're going to fetch data using SPL.